# BarbiK
When I began my computer science journey, I knew that I needed to pursue my affinity for tech, and engineering. I feel very strongly about the gender gap in tech and felt that I needed to help bridge that gap for all women. During this journey, I have been drawn to data science & analytics, as well as machine learning, and reverse engineering. I have a strong desire to manipulate data as well as continue with programming. I see myself working as a data scientist, using data to design programs and/or devices that utilize an automate predictive model. I do love to gather data and study their quantitative data models by using the data management skills I have acquired, along with enhancing my programming skills. In this short but rewarding time I have learned so many skills and concepts, with emphasis on team collaboration and communication. It is imperative to be as engaging and open as possible in a software development community. I have learned that while it may be somewhat personal, working with and communicating with your team at large is the key to a successful development lifecycle. The concept of being a lone developer is just a myth and is not feasible on any level of a project. Constructive criticism is very welcome and should not be taken personal. In order to develop a secure application, engineers and testers must understand that code review is of high importance. Keeping this in mind, has helped me to better understand the true method to a successfully designed software, by adequately educated engineers. This also includes understanding how to properly secure code without losing functionality. I believe that a thoughtful engineer should encompass their knowledge of data structures and algorithms, so that they are able to write optimized and efficient programs.
My engineering skills are based on the concepts mentioned and can be seen through my two (2) artifacts. The first artifact is a Zoo Monitoring system for zookeepers in a zoo, which when prompted, will produce a window that features any necessary alerts. The overall concept is a design that provides a menu of (3) three options on a zookeepers system: Monitor An Animal, Monitor a Habitat, and Exit. This program showcases my Java coding skills, as well as if/else statements, and creating a file object to read from a file. The second artifact displays my data structure & algorithms, and database skills using Python, NoSQL, and MongoDB. This project shows my proficiency developing a web application dashboard by integrating a client/server application. This allowed for me to write advanced query operations to analyze data in a more desirable fashion at the database level. The key concept of the NoSQL database resembles an object-oriented data structure, that helped to enhance the ease of the MongoDB queries.
